URL: https://medium.com/the-year-of-the-looking-glass/how-to-think-about-your-career-abf5300eba08
Title: How to Think About Your Career. It’s not that I didn’t think about my career at all. I was ambitious — I wanted to be a part of something big. Who needs career conversations when you’re busy changing the world?Here’s the thing though: your career, like your life, moves forward whether you think about it or not. Maybe you’ll end up somewhere you’ve always wanted to go. Maybe not. Why take that chance when you can captain your own sails?Here’s what I wish I had known about getting a handle on my career earlier in life:Your career is defined by your skills and how you’ve used them, not by any external measure of your progress.It’s common to think of your career as your level within the company, or how much money you make, or your title, or whether you were included in some prestigious group (a meeting of importance, an exclusive conference, a list of N under N, an award recipient, etc. )Often, I hear people say things like, “I’m interested in advancing my career. What do I need to do to get promoted?”This is a perfectly valid question to ask, but I suspect what lurks beneath the question is the assumption that advancing one’s career = getting a promotion. In my opinion, it’s like equating being a good friend with getting invited to friend’s wedding.Certainly, the people who attend someone’s wedding are likely to be good friends. But you wouldn’t think that optimizing for getting an invitation to a wedding is the right way to go about being a good friend. Now, maybe you check off these boxes and get a promotion. But would doing this actually help you in the long run? Would doing this teach you new skills and make you a more attractive hire for some other company down the line? Probably not. Maybe what happens is that you rise in the ranks of that company only to have it go bankrupt later on. Life sucks. You get bitter.So don’t ask “What does it take to get a promotion?” Ask instead: “How can I be doing more to help make our customers (or would-be customers) happy?” Ask “What skills should I be developing to help me increase my impact?”Even if your current company has a broken promotion system, even if your company collapses tomorrow due to the winds of ill fortune, even if every external measure you hold yourself to — title, salary, affiliation, awards — goes out the window, your skills are forever. Might you be better off in 10 years if you take a smaller position at a faster-growing company? When you do better, then by extension, she does better. Yes, she can (and should) fire you if you can’t do the job, or do nothing but play Pokemon Go all day. But assuming you’re not unqualified or lazy or an asshole (and trust me, if you were, you’d know quite quickly), then your manager would like nothing better than for your career to be on a rocket-ship trajectory to the moon.You don’t just need coaching when you’re struggling. (I know, I know. This list is titled One Day, I will…Now, maybe seven or eight years later, this list is still up-to-date. I’ve added additional items throughout the years, but the more incredible thing is how I’ve been able to check things off. And these proof points give me confidence that all the new items I am still adding will also happen. In 5 or so years, I’ll look back feeling great about having mastered those skills as well.Going back to this list a few times a year gives me a deep sense of motivation and comfort. Don’t blame your manager, your significant other, your friends, or your company if you don’t have the career that you want.