If you had asked 22-year-old me what my… | by Julie Zhuo | The Year of the Looking Glass | Medium
--------------------------------------------------

Photo by Derek KeatsHow to Think About Your CareerJulie Zhuo9 min read·Jul 26, 2016--466ListenShareIf you had asked 22-year-old me what my “career aspirations” were, I would have looked at you blankly and then casually changed the subject to what programs you’d recommend to model cute 3D bunnies for a video game, or whether the writers of Alias would be so devious as to ship Sydney Bristow and Sark. It’s not that I didn’t think about my career at all. Who needs career conversations when you’re busy changing the world?Here’s the thing though: your career, like your life, moves forward whether you think about it or not. Why take that chance when you can captain your own sails?Here’s what I wish I had known about getting a handle on my career earlier in life:Your career is defined by your skills and how you’ve used them, not by any external measure of your progress. It’s common to think of your career as your level within the company, or how much money you make, or your title, or whether you were included in some prestigious group (a meeting of importance, an exclusive conference, a list of N under N, an award recipient, etc.)Often, I hear people say things like, “I’m interested in advancing my career. But you wouldn’t think that optimizing for getting an invitation to a wedding is the right way to go about being a good friend. The same is true regarding your career. Ask “What skills should I be developing to help me increase my impact?”Even if your current company has a broken promotion system, even if your company collapses tomorrow due to the winds of ill fortune, even if every external measure you hold yourself to — title, salary, affiliation, awards — goes out the window, your skills are forever. I’d say “Oh, I’ve got it under control,” when they asked if I needed help with anything. Look, your manager’s job (assuming she is a good manager) is to help you and the rest of your team get better results. Hence, your manager is someone who is on your side, who wants you to succeed, and who is willing to spend a good deal of time and energy to help you do that. It’s precisely because I didn’t see my manager as a coach that I missed out on years of asking for and receiving training and feedback that would have helped me become better faster. Yes, of course, your manager still plays the role of judge. The more honest you can be with your manager about your aspirations, your motivations, and where you’d like their help to improve, the faster you’ll move. Many years ago, when I was frustrated by all the things I struggled with and felt unequipped or scared to do in my job, I started a list of what I wished a future me would one day be able to waltz in and easily accomplish. I’ve added additional items throughout the years, but the more incredible thing is how I’ve been able to check things off. If you’re curious what my list looks like, here is a snippet of items checked off through the years, and items that I am still working on:One Day, I will……✓ Not feel intimidated when I interview someone because I’m worried about what they think of me as an interviewer.✓ Not be nervous about a public speaking event in the days before it happens. This is the last takeaway because no matter how many people are on the sidelines helping you, ignoring you, or working against you, your career — like your life — is your responsibility. Don’t blame your manager, your significant other, your friends, or your company if you don’t have the career that you want. If your manager is not giving you the support or coaching you’d like, tell her how you’d like to be supported or coached. If you’ve never thought about where you’d like to be in three years, sit down and think about it.